
  As Tony has pointed out, shared access to a common 'micro-server'
device such as a RPi can easily be provided by ssh for command line
usage. This is relatively simple to implement and an RPi can
effectively host quite a number of users this way as it is generally a
lightweight load.  
   Generally this is a great way to extend the useful life of XOs
without having to do major software development and deployment to
individual devices.

   In a similar vein, the web browser on an XO can provide a rich
graphical interface to a common 'micro-server' to access information
and services. The load is obviously somewhat greater than for command
line, but it is surprising what can be achieved with even small server
devices.

= A good example is an XO-1 (Sugar) with gstreamer installed playing
Khan Academy mp4 videos from VillageTelco's MP2 accesspoint / RACHEL
(WorldPossible.org). Reasonable performance in extending for low cost
the use of the XO-1 in a classroom not having internet access.

http://wiki.laptop.org/go/GStreamer
https://store.villagetelco.com/mesh-potato-2-rachel.html

 The limitation seems to be more about getting good web browser
behaviour at the XO end, particularly for the early model devices.   
   It would be good to see some work done on this aspect, but I am not
sure that just porting current browsers to the platform will give a
good result because they appear to be quite resource hungry,
particularly for things like Flash. I suspect there may be some
benefit in developing good HTML5 behaviour in a lightweight browser
that will run well on older devices.   
   For a good example of what can be done with simple static HTML5
content, have a look at the PhET simulations from University of
Colorado, Boulder. This content is easy to serve from small devices,
but the XO browsers struggle to handle it.   
   [1]https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/category/html [2]   
   $0.02...   Regards   Terry

========================================================================

Hi Nathan,

Rachel has apparently generated these mp4 videos by using a smaller
frame size and, perhaps, bit-rate limiting. When I can come up for
air, I hope to look into the technique more. You are certainly right
that downloading the video to the XO and using gstreamer works better
in a classroom than attempting to have the video streamed from the
server.

Tony

